Two, one, boom, and we're live. First of all, cheers, gentlemen. Let's have a little toast, relax. Bob, thank you very much for doing this. I really appreciate it. I understand that you've told the story many, many times. You've been grilled many, many times, and it's very stressful for you. So I really, really appreciate your time. For people who don't know the story, there is a documentary. Jeremy Corbell has a documentary out right now. It's called Bob Lazar, Area 51, and UFOs. And flying saucers. And flying saucers. Bob Lazar, Area 51, and flying saucers. Okay. I first heard your story decades ago. I told you last night when we went out to dinner. I've seen pretty much every interview you've ever given. I've followed the story incredibly closely. But for people who don't know the story, let's give them the bullet points. You used to work at Area 51. And Area 51, who got you? You went like, huh? Well, you know, we want to be accurate. Okay. Area S4. S4. Okay. It's about 15 miles south of Area 51. Okay. You worked in, what would you, how would you describe it? I guess within the Area 51 compound, you can call that a subset of Area 51. Yeah. And you got that job. Before that you were working? Before that I had worked at Los Alamos. Right. National labs in New Mexico. And you were involved in what kind of work? Nuclear weapon development, physics. I mean, that's, they do everything there. So how do they approach you to say, hey, Bob, why don't you come on out to the Nevada desert? Well, the way this went down was, at that time, it was 1982. I put a jet engine in my Honda. And Los Alamos put it on the front page of the paper. I said, you know, Los Alamos man, physicist at the lab, you know, built this 200 mile an hour, you know, Honda jet car that I drove to work every day. So I was known in Los Alamos, the guy with the weird car, and you know, you could hear it from, you know, a mile away. Anyway, the day that came out on the front page of the paper was the day Edward Teller, the father of the hydrogen bomb was giving a lecture down there at the lab. And we didn't have much going on that day in our group. And I asked if I could go down there. And I went down there early, and Ed Teller was outside, leaning on a brick wall there and reading the front page of the paper. Now as a guy out of history, so I introduced myself, hey, I'm the guy you're reading about there. And we talked for a little while and it was cool. You know, fast forward to years later, I had moved out to Las Vegas, and had, you know, left Los Alamos, and, you know, went on to other things. And I wanted to get back into the scientific community. You know, I left to start other businesses and, and that sort of thing. So I sent resumes out, and one of them went out to Ed Teller, and referenced our meeting, you know, back in back in the day. And anyway, he remembered me, and gave me a reference, somebody to contact at EG&G. And that's pretty much how it started. So you get a phone call or a letter, like, what do you get? Well, I got a, what did I get? I got a letter initially, and went down for an interview, probably a couple times. And it was down at EG&G Special Projects, which was at McCarran Airport at that time, out in Las Vegas. And did they give you any sort of job description, what you were applying for? Yeah. They said it was for, and I can't remember exactly what they did. This was a long time ago, but I think it was advanced propulsion or something like that, something relatively generic. And they said, it's in a remote area. You know, it's going to be some days on, some days off. And, you know, it was kind of a, it was kind of, not exactly a full time job, but you might have to be out there for two weeks at a time and take two weeks off. So it was kind of a, the work schedule would be kind of broken up. And did this seem attractive to you or did it seem weird? No, it really wasn't weird because people that work at the test site, anybody that's familiar with the area up there, you know, working at the nuclear test site or at the Tonopah test range north of there, that's typically how things go. So you had known about it from the scientific community? Because at Area 51 at that time, No, they didn't say anything about Area 51. Okay. So they just said it was in a, you know, in a remote location and you just know it was up at the test site. Right. So, but there was no mention of Area 51 at that time. So they've done hundreds of nuclear tests in Nevada, Nevada, that whole area was, there's been just giant chunks of Nevada that people. Yeah. There's a big piece of Nevada and it's split up into different areas. There's a nuclear test site. There's Area 51. There's the Tonopah test range north of that. There's little sub areas. There's areas where they test chemical weapons and things like that. So it's all broken up as a, you know, gigantic test area. So take me back to first day on the job. You accept the job. They take you out there. Yeah. It's, um, the first day really, I didn't really get to see a whole lot. The first day was essentially just paperwork. That's when I flew into Area 51 proper. And I left, uh, McCarran airport and flew what they call the Janet flights, just, um, you know, a passenger plane from Las Vegas to Area 51. And it was really just going through, uh, mounting the paperwork that day, uh, from security clearances to, um, God, there was, it was like two or three hours of just solid paperwork. And that was, that was really an uneventful first day. When did things get weird? When did you realize that at what point in time did you say, Hey, this is not normal work. Like this doesn't even seem like it's from this planet. That I can't tell you what day that occurred on because so much time has gone by the days of kind of fused into one and I can't separate the days. Was it a slow burn or was there a moment of recognition? Well, there, the, the first inkling I had was when I, I came in normal, there's this facility that is at S4. It's in the side of a mountain. Um, and normally we had pulled in with the bus and gone around the front through a normal double door. This time that I went in, there were hanger doors open. I went into the hanger door and in the hanger door was the disc flying saucer that I worked on. I saw it sitting there and we walked by it had a little American flag stuck on the side. And I thought, Oh my God, this finally explains all the flying saucer stories. This is just an advanced fighter. And it, this is fucking hilarious. Right. So I went by, I slid my hand alongside it. I got reprimanded immediately for touching the thing. And, uh, there was a guy, an armed guard that followed us in and just said, keep your eyes forward and your hands at your side and just walk in the door. So that was the first time I had seen anything that was weird. Dr. John L. It was sometime later that I was introduced to my, uh, my lab partner, Barry, and we had some of the subcomponents of the craft, uh, in the lab. And Barry was very anxious to get a new lab partner. So he was very talkative and couldn't wait to show me different things. And it was in the demonstration of the reactor working where it caught my attention to where this is technology that doesn't even exist. So, I mean, that was the first time I knew that this is really something different. What was it? What was it? What was it? What was it? What was it about this reactor that made you think that it didn't exist technologically? Dr. John L. Well, it was the, I actually have to back up because there were some briefings that I read it before that, that, um, you know, certainly gave me the impression that this was going to be a weird job, but this was the first hands-on thing. Uh, this was a small reactor about the size of a hemisphere, about the size of a basketball on a metal plate. And when it was running, it produced a gravitational field, a gravitational field of its own. Now, this is something that we can't do. We can't produce any gravity. The only way we get gravity is from large quantities of mass, but there's no machine we can have that turns on that makes gravity. Like, uh, you know, you can turn on an electromagnet and it makes a magnetic field. We can't make a gravitational field. Anyway, this device was producing that. And Barry said, almost like he was bragging, go ahead, try and try and touch the sphere. And I, I couldn't, it pushed my hands away, just like two light poles of a magnet. So that was, uh, So like when you take two magnets and try to press them together and they push against each other? Yeah. Kind of quick cushion feeling, but you can't, you can't get them together. The closer you put them, the more they push. But you felt that physically with my hand. Yeah. Now there's nothing, there's nothing that does that. And that immediately caught my attention. Go on. Wow. This is something else. What was your thought? Like when you felt that and you knew that there was nothing that you were aware of that could produce this? Then that connected me to the briefings that I read on the first day at S4 was that, uh, you know, everything that I had read was apparently accurate. What were you reading? I read, it was kind of an overview. This project was to back engineer the alien craft. And specifically, it was to try and back engineer and see if we can duplicate the technology with available materials. Now to do this, they split the project into, you know, many different pieces for several reasons. They do this on all classified projects. So, uh, nobody has the complete story, but, uh, they compartmentalize everything and we had the power and propulsion system. So what the briefings they gave me were like a one or two page overview of some of the other projects that were going on, you know, on the craft. The only reason they do that is just in case what you're working on is connected intimately in some way that we don't know of to one of the other projects. You have to know their, excuse me, their existence. So, um, you know, I, again, everything from metallurgy to, you know, weapon potential, the craft, and these were all, you know, essentially very short briefings, but mine was just power and propulsion. And it made it very clear that what I read was accurate. So when you're reading that before you actually saw the reactor, what were your thoughts on what they were describing? If you knew that something like that didn't exist and they're describing it in the briefings, what did you think you were going to see? I really, I, I didn't know at the time. I mean, I was reading, I thought, is this is some kind of test. Um, see if you're crazy. Well, not to see if I'm crazy to, you know, a lot of times they'll take in real high security, uh, jobs. I mean, they'll intentionally insert nonsense into them. Um, whether it's to confuse the fact, or if for someone was to leak it out, uh, they would carry that information along and know where it came from. So I read through the documents, but you know, I didn't know if this was, you know, part of some kind of test or, um, you know, or, or what, or was it potentially realistic? I mean, I really didn't consider it being all that possible as far as being, uh, the actual thing that I was going to work on at the time. How did they turn it on? The, the reactor? Yeah. Your reactor can be turned on or turned off in a lot of different ways. Um, the way Barry showed me it, the hemisphere is removed. There's a small tower in the middle. When you put the hemisphere on the reactor activates, the reactor shuts down. It's, it's load sensing. So if there's, if there's no load on the reactor at all, it shuts down. When there's a load present on it, it starts up again. Load meaning? Yeah. You can consider it an electrical load. So although it doesn't necessarily operate electrically, there's no wiring that connects any of the subcomponents together whatsoever. They just have to be in the immediate vicinity. It's a, it is, but the stuff is borderline magic. And that's essentially where we left it, you know, when I left the project. So there was no progress made. There was some progress. I mean, we did identify, at least we think some processes and, and had a rough idea. We think of what was going on, but, um, I think this is a problem that they've had for a long time. And, um, you know, I was replacing somebody that Barry worked with prior to me. And I think there was some horrific accident that I didn't have a whole lot of information on, but, you know, Barry alluded to that. A horrific accident, like where someone died or? Yeah. Where somebody died. Because they were trying to tamper with things or figure out how something worked? Yeah. The reactor in particular. But yet he let you touch it. Yeah. I think what they were trying to do was cut into one. Oh, geez. Now they had, they had more than one there and that was supposedly there was an unannounced nuclear test. And that's what it was at the time. Remember they were still doing underground nuclear tests at the test site. Um, but from what I understand, according to Barry, there was an attempt made. Now this must have been a pretty desperate attempt, because it's not a very scientific process to cut, you know, analyze something that way. But it looked like they used a plasma cutter or something like that to cut into an operating reactor. How many of these things did they have? They had nine, nine craft altogether. I only got hands on with one of them. So I can't really say what the, how the others operated. Did you see the other ones? Yeah. At one time and only one time, the bay doors between the hangers were all open. And I could see all the way through. And were they all exactly the same? No, they were all different, different shapes. Yeah. But they were all from somewhere else. Yeah, absolutely. Now, did anyone make any attempt to explain or to, to tell you where they came from? No, no, no one is the least bit interested in letting everybody know all the facts. They want to give you the minimum information that's necessary to complete your task. So you're not getting the story of where they came from. You're not getting the story of what, how much progress other people are making. You just focus on the small component. But they gave you some indication that they've been working on these for a while. Yeah. When do you think they acquired these? I really couldn't say. I think they've been around for a while. So they bring you into this room. You see this reactor working. You realize this is nothing that as far as like the scientific community at the current time has the ability to create. But you still don't. What is your life like from that moment on? Is that where everything changes? Because you do. I mean, I would imagine the moment you actually make contact with something that's extraterrestrial, whether it's an object or a being, something where you can actually absolutely be certain. It's not from here. It's not from here. Your whole paradigm, the whole world you live in is now a different place. Well, this is the only time it became exciting. You know, the rest of the time, it was really an ominous feeling being at work. But at that time, it was exciting. I mean, this was, now I knew we were on the absolute, actually beyond the cutting edge of science. And I was, I was so absolutely excited to be there every single time I was. You know, this was a fantastic opportunity. And however, in short order, it began to concern me. And I think, for me, we really have no idea what we're talking about. And the excitement kind of turned to dread at some point. Because the amount of power we're dealing with is astronomical. I mean, to affect gravity, to produce the effects like this equipment does, takes huge amounts of power. And I've given the example before of, you know, taking a small portable nuclear reactor and, you know, putting it back into Victorian times, you know, with the scientists at the time. And just dropping it in a room. They come and look at it and see that it's producing power and wonder how it works. So they start taking it apart. And as soon as they get some of the shielding off, the people are going to drop dead because of the radiation inside. Now, people have no idea that radiation even exists back then. But anybody that comes in to check on them will also drop dead. And, you know, there's no reason that that exact scenario couldn't happen with what we're dealing with. We have no idea how the physics operate within this thing. The power levels are, like I said, astronomical. It's incredibly dangerous to tinker with something like that. And, you know, in some respects, we were guinea pigs. Just try to find out how to make this thing. So they had had a series, as far as you surmised, they had a series of different scientists try to back engineer this thing, try to figure out what this thing was. And they would bring in new people and, like, let's throw Bob at it. Yeah. Yeah. And they know. I don't know how many, but I knew there was certainly one before me. And I knew he died during the analysis of the reactor itself. And you don't know how many have worked on it and no one gave any indication. This could have been there for 50 years. It could have been there for five years. When they're giving you instructions, what are they saying? Like, when they're giving you direction, they're showing you all the stuff. Like, what are they saying? Specifically, what are they asking of you? Well, essentially what they ask is what I said. We are just to gather as much information as possible, find out how it operates and see if we can duplicate it. But they never told you where it was from and never let you ask questions about where it's from? Well, if the information I read in the briefings was accurate, now, what I do have to say is the information that pertained directly to the reactor was accurate. What I read did, I mean, did jive with reality. In terms of how? In terms of how it was made, what we saw, how it operated, the materials, how it turned on, and what was discovered about it. I'm sorry. The migraine is really making it hard for me to think here. Sorry. No, we talked that before the podcast. You tell everybody Bob is getting a migraine. I know you're very stressed out by this. It's just one of the reasons why I appreciate you doing this. Where was I already? We were talking about where I explained it. And so there was some paperwork that indicated that this was from the Zeta Reticuli star system. Now, yeah. Now, how they obtained that, I haven't the slightest idea. But it wasn't just from the Zeta Reticuli star system. It was what they called ZR3. So it was a third planet in that star system. So there was no other information about it other than that's supposedly where the craft came from. Now, is that true? I don't know. I have no way of verifying that. But that was printed in the same materials that referenced the reactor. Now, I looked that stuff up when I went home. And Zeta Reticuli is a binary star, two stars that orbit one another. And it's only visible in the southern hemisphere. And it's about 30 some odd light years away. So that's literally all the information I have about that. I don't know how they found out it came from there. And you also probably have some suspicions that they give you some disinformation like you were talking about before. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you ever decided to talk about this, they added a bunch of nonsense to make whatever is factual look ridiculous. Right. Or be able to trace it down. Like, okay, this fax came out. And this Lazar guy said it came from Zeta Reticuli. So they knew it was what they made. Well, you read Zeta Reticuli. You're like, what in the fuck is this? Well, reading all of the stuff, it was what in the fuck is this? You're like, why did I sign up for this? No, no. To me, this was cool. This was interesting. I said, I was just excited to be out in a secure area, you know, in the middle of the desert. I said, this is awesome. How old were you at the time? I guess I was in my 20s. Yeah. So you're probably totally geeked out. Oh, yeah. This was great. I mean, I was excited. So I didn't care. I was reading through everything. So you read through all the Zeta Reticuli thing, but then when you see the actual starship with the little American flag sticker on it. Well, that was. Was that later or before? Before. That. That was. Before. So before. So you see the thing before and you say, oh, this is American. Wait, what's that before? It's hard. So many years. Yeah, I can't. Either way. It doesn't matter. The days have fused together. It's so hard to separate what happened in each visit. Do you remember the thought process when you read that it's from Zeta Reticuli? Yeah. It didn't hit me like a ton of bricks or anything. It was just like, yeah, OK. You think it was bullshit? I don't know. You just wear that. Now I don't. I mean, because when I read it, I hadn't verified anything. And this was just a bunch of stuff I was reading. And I thought maybe after this, they're just going to give me a test and see what I can remember in crazy information. But like I said, when I finally went in with Barry and had hands-on experience with what they were talking about, it talked on a completely different meaning. So there's a plate. There's this thing that looks like half a basketball. And when it's on, you can't come anywhere near it. You can't touch it. Right. How is it? What is gravity about that? Like the concept of gravity to most people is gravity is bringing something towards it. Right. Well, I guess you would say it's anti-gravity. It's gravity shifted 180 degrees. It's, you know, anti-gravity. And did they have any understanding about what could possibly create this effect? Did they have any areas where they'd like you to look into? No, they, well, they knew there was a fuel source in it. And they were proficient at making it work. And again, my analogy to something like this is you can drop a motorcycle off on the wagon train days and just leave it with the keys parked outside, you know, somebody's place. Everybody will come around it and they'll poke and prod. And eventually they'll turn the key, get it to start and become proficient at writing it. Yeah. But they won't be able to understand what the hell's going on. They won't be able to make the plastic fender, much less anything else. And I think that's exactly the state we were at. We played around with the parts long enough before I got there where they could make the reactor operate, take the fuel out and know that it makes it work. How exactly what was going on in the reactor remained a mystery at the time. I think we made some progress on what was going on inside. But I don't think anybody really knew anything. They could just watch what was going on and make note of it. How long were you there? I'd say about six months or so. And what progress was made while you were there? Well, we came up with a bunch of reasonably good ideas about how the reactor worked. And one of them was the base, the square base of it was essentially like a cyclotron, which is a small particle accelerator, a circular one. Particle accelerators, linear particle accelerators are just a, you know, long tube essentially. And they accelerate particles with high voltage and, you know, radio frequencies till they reach high speeds. But a cyclotron does that in a small circular area. And there is this very heavy element fuel, element 115, something that wasn't on our periodic charts at the time. But it is now. It is now. Yeah. When did it become on the periodic table now, the way the charts now? You know, I don't remember. Do you remember when they... 2004, Dermstadt, Germany, I think is where they first fabricated four atoms. It lasted 220 milliseconds. The atoms is nothing, right? And then it later was discovered a couple more times they could fabricate it. Then they gave it a place then on the periodic chart. After that, called it Muscovium. So they told you about this stuff in 1982? 1982? Yeah. Well, we kind of... 1982. What year was this? It was 88 and 89 when I was there. 82 is when... Oh, 82 was when you were in Los Alamos. I'm sorry. Yeah. So 88, 89, they told you about this stuff. So this was not like... No, they didn't tell me about it. That's one of the things that this group came up with. Mm-hmm. The... God, I keep losing my train of thought with this thing. So this one area... This element 115 was the fuel. Yeah, it was the fuel. So... The world will forgive you for having a migraine. It's really hard to think through this. Just give me a minute. I just want to say... Yeah, definitely. As I said, one thing, you know, for the last 30 years, people have just been on the attack on Bob, you know, getting to know him, the personal effects on his life. It's really hard to understand unless you meet his family and his wife. I mean, this is the last thing he wanted to fucking do was have to talk. Yeah, we should explain that, Jeremy, that you and I had this conversation. I watched your documentary. We had this conversation and I said, I have to talk to him. Yeah. The document, there's been detractors. There's been a bunch of people that called bullshit on many of the things that you've said. But over time, many of the things that you talked about, even in the 80s, have proven to be true. Things that people said were not true were proven to be true. Element 115 was one of them. Right? Right. Right. Element 115, the fuel they had was stable. In other words, it didn't decay. It wasn't emitting radioactivity. When they synthesized the two or three atoms of the 115, it did decay and it was not a stable element. So they're kind of two different things. But this is kind of typical. Elements always have or pretty much always have stable isotopes and unstable isotopes. I think cesium has like 30 unstable isotopes to it. So, well, hydrogen, for example, you're familiar with hydrogen gas. It's stable. It's not radioactive. But there's also two other types of hydrogen, deuterium and tritium. And deuterium isn't radioactive. It's another stable isotope of hydrogen. But tritium is radioactive. Now, they're all hydrogen. But they just have different amounts of neutrons. So it's the same thing with other elements and element 115. Depending on the amount of neutrons it has, designates the isotope. But it's 115. They will continue to type or experiment and try and make 115 at different isotopes. And I'm sure eventually they'll come up with a stable version. But it's the stable version that has the properties that we're talking about. So they somehow or another had acquired a stable version. Did they say that the stable version had come with this craft? Yeah, it absolutely came with the craft. Yeah. So at the time, you having a firm knowledge of the periodic chart and knowing what was real and what wasn't real, what was your reaction to having this stable element 115 that wasn't even supposed to exist? Well, everything was impossible. Right. I mean, down to the metal, I did get a chance to look inside the craft on only one occasion. And this was important because where the reactors sat might have been critical to how it operated since everything operates without any interconnections. So the placement of components might be critical. So they allowed me to go inside and look at it. Again, I forgot where the hell I am. So you're going into this craft. And what are you thinking when you're inside of it? What are you seeing? It's a very ominous feeling because it's, there are no, first of all, everything is one color. It's like a dark pewter color. And there are no right angles anywhere. It's as if somebody took, I've said this before, somebody took a model out of, and fashioned it out of wax and then heated it just for a short time. So everything melted, everything looks like it's fused together. Everything has a radius of curvature where two items meet. It's a really weird looking thing. But there was almost nothing other than a small foldable hatchway that looked recognizable. Everything was really unworldly, to pick a way to describe it. So you get inside this thing, and it's designed for something that's much smaller than a human being. Yeah, you can't really stand up until you get to the very center of it. And how tall are you? I'm 5'10". And what do you think this was designed for? I'd say something close to half my height. Wow. So these little three-foot-tall-ish creatures. Yeah, and the seats were small, too. I mean, obviously, it was made for something, something small. But there was no, like, there's nothing else in there. There's just seats, the reactor, and some of the subcomponents. There's no control panels. There's no bathroom. There's no decorative components or artwork or anything that you would recognize or trim. I mean, it's just a very bare-bones thing. You're not seeing any screens? Well, there are archways around it that are part of the superstructure. And one of the archways can become transparent. When I was in there, there was another group working on one of the archways. And you could call that a screen, more or less. Yes. So through that archway, it would maintain the solidity, the solid, whatever metal it was? Yeah. But you could see through it? Yeah, it just became transparent. Yeah. I saw that happen once or twice before I left. Did you ask any questions about what the fuck that was? No, there's no asking questions. No. But when you watch something become transparent, and you realize it's still there, but you can now see through it. Yeah, I mean, no, that's not that impressive. We do have some liquid crystal materials that are like that. You know, they have smart glass. Yeah, they call it smart glass. So this is just, and I don't know if the craft is made of, you know, an advanced metal or a ceramic. It was cold to the touch. So, you know, I would lean more towards a metal. You're not allowed to ask questions. No. The only, they work on the buddy system. So I can only exchange ideas and talk to Barry. Now, this really interferes with science. Because science is based on free discussion. And ideally, you get a bunch of guys together, exchange ideas, work on problems, and that's how things move forward. But they're so over the top concerned about security. They split everything off and everybody becomes stagnant. It just destroys any of the progress you can make or at least makes it go so slow. I think they wind up shooting themselves in the foot. Which is probably why they arrived at this bottleneck that they needed to get this madman with a jet-powered Honda to come in and see what he could do. I think that was an act of desperation. I think they wanted someone that thinks out of the box and let's just give this guy a try here. Because they weren't. And they might have done this four more times since, you know, up to the point in time today. Assuming they're still working on this thing. And when you see this craft and you're inside, was there any indication that there was an area that they would use to control it, to pilot it? Was there a pilot seat? There were three seats. They sat around. The reactor was in the dead center of it. And then equidistant around there were three seats. And that's all. There was a large, they're not consoles. They're large rectangular objects, also spaced, equidistant around the center. There's nothing on them. There's no buttons. There's no lights. There's no control. And they look the same color, the same thing. Everything is the same color. It's just a different shape. Right. And directly underneath them. There's three levels in the craft. The main level is what we're talking about. Directly under that. Those are the gravity amplifiers, the big rectangular objects. Underneath them are the gravity emitters that look like, for lack of a better word, a trash can hanging on a pipe. Three of those. And then the top layer, this is just my personal belief. I think that has to do with a navigation or their version of a computer with some planar panels, sensor panels around the craft that we would call portholes. But they're not portholes. They're just black areas. And I think that just determines its position in space. But I was, I physically was in the center section. And I stuck my torso in the bottom section and hung upside down so I could see how the gravity amplifiers were positioned. What is roughly the size of this thing? I think it's a, I don't remember from being there, but after all this stuff was over, I had John Andrews, a guy from the Testers Model Corporation. And, you know, we sat down and tried to figure out from what I saw and known sizes of things. And we came up with 52 feet in diameter. So it's fairly small. Yeah. So I think that's a fair, a reasonable guess. Now you said there's nine of them. And you got a brief glimpse at the other ones. Were they, how were they different? Oh, they looked completely different. One looked like a, I called it Jell-O mold. And it looked like a classic Jell-O mold with the rippled sides to it. One was a very flat disc, you know, like a, oh, I don't know, like a straw hat or something like that. That was sitting up on its edge. And the thin part of it had, looked like a projectile, had been fired through the edge of it. So I don't know if they were attempting to see if the metal could be penetrated or if something, or if that's where the thing came from. Maybe it was shot down. But that was the only one where I saw that was, you know, actual physical damage to it. And that one was roughly the same size? They were all? They were kind of too far away to tell. And did, there were several teams that were working on the propulsion system? So there was different teams that were working on these different aircrafts? I don't know. I could only assume. Right. Now, when you're sitting in this thing and you're looking at this otherworldly craft, your goal is to try to figure out how this thing functions. Your goal is to try to figure out how this reactor, I mean, imagine they would give you more time than just one day to check that out. Oh, yeah. It wasn't one day. Right. Yeah. I mean, this is, Barry was there. I think Barry was sleeping there. I'm sure they had, that isn't weird. I mean, up at the Tone-upot test range where they work on stealth fighters, you know, you go, I think, three weeks on, one week off, and you stay up there too. So it's not weird to stay up at the test site. Right. So, yeah, I think he pretty much, and he acted like he's been up there for a long time. Yeah. But. And he's still there. Yeah. Who knows? Do you have contact with this guy? No. Oh, no. I wish I did. I kind of thought he was going to come out after I did. Right. And I think I took so much flack and so much shit for what went on, I think actually I wound up helping security there, and everybody became afraid of, you know, doing or saying anything after that. So what kind of reports did you have to give? Like, so you're not making much progress, right? You're just trying to figure out what this thing is, and it seems impossible. Well, we didn't personally make them. I mean, we were always, there was never a lot of information that we gained. The guy, you would call him our supervisor, his name was Dennis Mariani, and kind of a military-looking guy. And he would routinely pop in, you know, during the day and, you know, hey, what's going on, guys? And he would essentially relay any information, anything new we came up with. I mean, he was our go-between, you know, where we presented him the information, then he took it to wherever they were, you know, assembling all the data from everybody. Now, I assume you're working normal days, like an eight-hour day? No. No? No, it was really weird that I would be only called in on certain times and certain days, and they would be weird hours, too. Most of the time was later in the evening. I mean, I can get a call at 11 o'clock at night, and they'll say, you know, it's now 11 o'clock. By 11.45, you need to be at McCarran Terminal, and, you know, we'll let you know when we have more information. But what did you do while you were there? If you're looking at this object, this reactor, and you can't figure out what it is or how it works, other than the fact that it works on this element that we don't even know about. Sure. I mean, the thing was to – what you do, you know, with anything, if you're trying to analyze it, all you can do is perform tests. And all we did is try and come up with every kind of test we possibly could. I mean, we tested, you know, it violated a lot of what we thought was impossible to violate. I mean, one of the first laws of thermodynamics, I mean, essentially, any machine, any device that operates always makes extra heat. Nothing works at 100% efficient. Even the headphones you're wearing, anything that takes power, some of that power is going to be converted to heat, and it's just wasted. This didn't. I mean, we looked at – back then, we had infrared cameras. They're different today. But back then, you had to pour liquid nitrogen into the camera to cool the sensor down and get these infrared images you've seen. But it never got – no matter what the load was on the reactor – it never got above the ambient temperature. Which is impossible. I mean, you're, you know, pulling out huge amounts of power, and nothing ever gets warm. We tried measuring magnetic fields, and there was nothing there. So we started playing around with the emission from the emitters, the gravity wave itself, and saw what we could do with it and how it was focused. So we really spent all our time just trying to see what the stuff can do and what we can control. So you were seeing what it could do, but you couldn't ever figure out how it was doing it? No, not really. I mean, we really could only use – or come up with a best guess. Now, I can't say we really – that I could absolutely state for certainty how anything actually worked. Now, how – did you know at all how they were piloting it? Because some – they were doing some tests where they were having these things fly around in the sky. And this is what gets us deeper into your story. Right. I was out there for one test, right – in fact, I was in – with Barry in the lab, and Dennis came in and said, we're about to run a test. Why don't you guys come out? Or I think he said, Barry, why don't you come out here and bring Bob with you? We went out there, and the craft was already outside the hangar and was just preparing to lift off. Now, they were in communication with somebody in the craft. So there was a person in the craft? Yeah. There was certainly a person in there. Now, it's not a comfortable place to be in because it's small. So the guy has to be sitting on the floor in the middle, my best guess. And this is the same specific craft that you worked on? Yeah, that was. Because that was the only craft that you were in. The only one that I touched and worked on. And it quietly lifted off the ground, which was incredibly impressive to see. Quietly or silently? Well, quietly, because it produced a little corona discharge from the bottom. A corona discharge is kind of a high-voltage brush, little bluish glow discharge. As it was lifting off the ground, you couldn't hear a slight hiss sound. And as soon as it cleared the ground by about 5 or 10 feet, maybe even less than that, the hissing stopped and the blue goat disappeared. So it lifted off quietly and then it hovered silently, if you want to be specific. Wow. So then what kind of maneuvers was it doing? It took off, for that particular time, it took off, moved a little around to the left and right, and then sat back down. The craft itself, they communicated with it with a wreck, because I saw the guy talking in a regular VHF radio to the person in the craft. And I even saw the frequency that was on the frequency counter of the communication, the transceiver there. But what's weird is he shouldn't be able to communicate with the craft with a radio. The radio wave should bend around the craft. I mean, it shouldn't be possible. Every single thing about the craft and the way they operated didn't make any sense to us. I mean, that's something we talked about for a while after. Why should the frequency bend around the craft? Well, you really have to look at the way the gravity wave comes out of the craft. There's the reactors in the center, and there's a waveguide that goes up to the top. There's actually a small appendage that sticks out at the top of the craft, and it produces a heart-shaped gravitational distortion around the craft. Now, if the craft is sitting in the air, and you walk underneath it and look up, you actually cannot see the craft. The light bends around it. Your bending gravity bends light. It bends radio waves. It shouldn't be possible to communicate with a craft that has an envelope around it that's distorting all forms of energy. But they were apparently in contact with it. Somehow or another, through some unexplained way, that they didn't bother explaining to you. So this thing gets up. It just does some very simple maneuvers. Left, right, left, right. It goes down. And did they discuss this with you? I mean, they said they wanted you to see it. No, they just wanted it. No, they didn't discuss anything with me. It sat down. We looked around for a bit, and Barry said, let's go back. We went back in the lab. All we got to do was see it. Fast forward to some months later, I did have the test flight schedule of the craft. Now, at times they had designated high-performance tests. This obviously wasn't one that was a high-performance test. The high-performance test goes above the mountain range, and they do much more radical moves with the thing. Look, this is a prized item, and they're not doing anything like taking it out of the atmosphere or flying around to other countries or anything like that. They just play with this thing right over the test site. But they were doing some radical moves with it. And since I had the test flight schedule, statistically, the amount of traffic in the surrounding areas on the highway was lowest on Wednesdays. And that's why Dennis told us that all the test flights occurred only on Wednesdays, because it'd be the least chance that anyone would see what's going on. And this was before the government had expanded the forbidden territory around Area 51 and Papoose Lake and all that stuff, right? Yeah, I think that occurred after my story came out. Then people started going up on the mountaintops and trying to look down into there, and they kind of freaked out, and then did the land grab and pushed everybody back. But, yeah, I think all that occurred long after I'm scared that I came out. So you're working there, and while you're working there, you're under this crazy schedule. Forgive me for explaining your story. But you would get these phone calls. You would have to go to the airport at 11 p.m., and your wife started thinking that you were having an affair. Yeah, apparently so. Now, I did give my permission to have, you know, as part of the, you know, security clearance process, I gave written permission to have the phones monitored and things of that sort. So they weren't doing any covert stuff. They, you know, with any Q clearance, which is civilian top secret clearance or military top secret clearance, they go talk to friends and, you know, places you've been, make sure you're not connected to foreign countries. But, you know, monitoring your phone is nothing unusual. However, they insisted that, you know, you don't even talk to your loved one, to your partner, to your wife, whatever, about what's going on. So she was essentially in the dark and didn't know the phone was being monitored. Well, part of the security clearance is that not only do you not have any connections to foreign countries and aren't a maniac, but you have to have a stable home life, too. Well, she started having an affair with a flight instructor. Now, they were monitoring this on the phone, and they knew it, and I didn't. So they stopped me coming in, and their attitude at the time was, we need to see how this is going to play out and if Lazar is going to get a little weird or anything. So let's just, you know, hold him off from coming in and, you know, see what happens. And they explained this to you, what was happening? Well, after the fact, yeah, because time kind of went on, and there were guys that were following me around. And I started getting a little concerned going, well, Chit, are they booting me out of the project? And if so, they're not just going to let me hang out at home and go get a new job knowing what I know. So as time went on, I started getting a little concerned. And I took my closest friends and just kind of got together. I said, hey, remember that job I told you about? This is what's going on. And you don't need to take my word for it. Wednesday night, we need to all go out here. I want to show you what's going on. So I took everybody and we went out to, remember, since I had the test flight schedule, and went outside the base out into the desert. And so everybody could see, you know, one of the high-performance tests. And, you know, it left quite an imprint on everybody. So they knew I wasn't. This video is of these tests, right? Yeah, but remember, this is in the dark in the 80s of the big monster-sized camcorder. And you've got, you know, a bright light jumping around. But, yeah, I mean, we did video of it, but there's no, by today's standards, it's good. But is your video specifically available, the video that you took? Yeah, well, George Knapp has it. Is it online? I have no idea. Jeremy? Yeah, I show clips of it in my film. It's online. And someone did a deep analysis of it. It was interesting to take a look at how— Pull this microphone up to your face. Tell me about a fist from your face. Right. You know, to see how his video looks now. But as far as video evidence, I mean, we are talking 80s camcorder. The most important thing is the human story here. Everybody that he took up there on three separate occasions, they don't all like each other. They don't all talk. They all agree on one thing. They saw something that night at the exact point in time and space that Balbazar said— Remember, this is 17, 15, 17 miles south of Area 51. No one even knew really about Area 51. We're talking Papoose Lake. And they all agree. They saw something that night they had never seen before, and they've never seen since right when he said it. So that's one of, like, the six things where I'm like, how did he know? You can dismiss him. I tried to dismiss it. But some things we can't get around. And there's about five or six of them. How did he know about those? If Jamie wants to find that video right now, what would he look under? Bob Lazar, UFO, S4, Area 51. Just kind of like that. So it's like the S4 UFO video, Bob Lazar. The guy does an analysis, but you're analyzing these 80s videos. From the very beginning, Bob never said, I have proof of my story and I'm going to tell the world. He said at the very beginning, I cannot prove my story. That's not why I'm telling this. George Knapp convinced him to tell people. And he lived through it. And I didn't believe it either until I talked with George. Okay. So you filmed this test flight, one test flight, and then you get caught. Actually, it was, I think, the third time because we went out there the first time. Everybody saw it. Everybody was amazed because it did some radical maneuvers. And, you know, everybody had a lot to say about it. Maneuvers that I've seen, I've seen the video. It doesn't, I don't think there's something we have now that does that. No. In terms of like a human piloted craft. I mean, I don't know, obviously, what the government. No, it's impossible. Nothing can move like that. And remember, we didn't start filming from the very beginning. You know, we were waiting for something, you know, to happen. The craft took off and it came flying at us, stopped, you know, turned at a right angle, flew back. And then, you know, after it did some, you know, amazing stuff, we were like, to get the camera. And then, you know, we started filming. So it doesn't have all of it on there. It just has some. The way I describe it to my friends and I said, what does it look like? I said, take a laser pointer and then have a wall and then move it around the wall. Like, you know how it moves around the wall? It doesn't seem like it has anything to do with inertia or physics or it's not impeded in any way by the atmosphere. Yeah. That's what it looks like. You're essentially separated from reality. As crazy as that sounds, with being in case it's own gravitational envelope, inertia is not going to affect it. And, you know, this is how some of those recent sightings with Commander David Fravor, I'm sure you've heard of the Tic Tac UFO. I mean, he describes exactly, the thing operates exactly the way I was describing. That's why he was interested to talk to me. But we saw this and, you know, on the way home, it's like, hey, we got away with it. We should try it again the next test flight day. So this became a thing to do. And I think it was on the third time that we got caught. I mean, we started becoming a little careless. I think we took a motorhome out there. You know, I mean, it was like the stupidest thing you could possibly imagine. The grill, sort of tailgating. Yeah, it was ridiculous. And again, you're in your 20s. Yeah. And, you know, what was funny was we went out there and my friend Gene Huff and I were leaning on the front of a vehicle. And just for some reason, we just started talking shit. Like, well, I hope they realized that I don't remember what we were saying, but, you know, that it's something about attacking the base or something along those lines and stealing the craft or something like that. So crazy. And then about 20 feet in front of us, we see a little green light fall on the ground and roll to us. And unbeknownst to us, now it's pitch black. You can't see your hand in front of your face. There were a bunch of guards standing right out there. And they had a night vision scope where they were, like, from here to the wall looking at us, listening to us. And the guy dropped it. And the scope rolled over to us. And you could see the green screen. You know, we turned the lights on. And all these guys were there. So it was, yeah. So we did incredibly stupid stuff and got caught as we should have. So when they catch you and they bring you in, then what happens? Well, I went in for debriefing. The following day, I went to Indian Springs Air Force Base, which is kind of a defunct base that they used to use at the nuclear test site. And this is when they brought out the transcript of the phone call with my wife. And, you know, they sat me down and we said, you know, when we meant to keep the secret, we meant you can't tell your friends, right? You know, and it just being sarcastic and trying to. And then they got real serious. But this is where they, you know, took the transcript out and were reading me what my wife and, you know, our friend were talking about. And it was a hard time. So what happens from there? What do they do with you? Why don't they arrest you? I don't know. I don't know why. I'm not sure exactly they knew what to do, but they did let me go that night and I went home. And this is kind of when the most stressful part started. Because you're realizing you're being monitored. Yeah. Now I know not only am I being monitored, but now I know I'm in trouble. And it wasn't a short time after that that I contacted, you know, at that time, the only investigative reporter I had heard of in Las Vegas was George Knapp. And, you know, told him some of the story because I had no idea what the hell was going to happen at that point. So George Knapp tries to dissect your story, tries to find holes in it, tells it, puts it online, and makes everybody aware of it. And that's how I found out about it. Yeah. To make a long story short. What happens from there on? I mean, do they contact you and say, hey, Bob, it's probably a good idea if you shut up? Did they try to label you as crazy? Boy, there were a lot of things that happened, you know, between that point. I'm leaving out a lot of stuff to fill in the story. We'd have to go back to Los Alamos and, well, I really don't want to talk about that. Top secret weapons stuff that you were working on. No, I'm talking about the 115. Well, I don't know. I have to think about how I... What is the problem? I don't want to get myself into more trouble by admitting something. So I just have to dance around a couple. He was rated just during the filming of the movie. Yeah. The movie's great, by the way. Thanks, Joe. And it's on Netflix right now if anybody wants to check it out. And if you're one of those people like me who, you know, I've always loved the idea of UFOs. I became extremely weary talking to people who are UFO believers and UFO fanatics because there's so many of them that are full of shit. And not just full of shit. They're childishly delirious. It's like the way they talk about things. I mean, there's so many people that are... I'm in contact. They reach me in the night and they explain to me what we're doing to the ocean is wrong. And you're like, okay. This is one of the reasons I didn't want to do the show, I'm sure. Well, no. It's no... Yeah, well. I mean, it's no joke. We've had people literally camp out on our front lawn. And, you know, in some ways I can relate to some of these people. You know, maybe some of them did really have some kind of experience or saw something. And all their friends think they're crazy. But, hey, now there's this guy I heard on the radio. And at least he knows I'm not full of shit. So I got to talk to him. And so most of the correspondence I get are people trying to get a hold of me. Come on, Bob, you got to listen to me. I'm coming to talk to you. You know, I'm driving from Oklahoma or whatever. But some of them are just fucking bad shit crazy. And they're frightening. There's a lot of schizophrenics that are involved in the conspiracy world. So there's a lot of people that have real issues. Joe, it would be a disservice to your audience to not say that we have to look at what's going on now and understand. I've heard on your show a bunch of stuff about what's going on now. And to not really understand what's going on now, you can't see Bob's story in the correct light after 30 years. And at some point, we should just touch upon that. The biggest being that things like the Tic Tac UFO case that came out, I've heard people even on the show say, well, there's a glitch in the radar. That's a data poor perspective. You just don't know yet what's really going on. Commander Fravor, I was able to get the interview with him to talk with him way before it became public. I got that from him. He saw it. Other pilots saw it. This is a big thing that's going on right now. They had more settings on the East Coast recently, cubes with spheric oars. These are not aerodynamic, and these are the people we trust to defend us on 9-11. Commander Fravor protected Los Angeles on 9-11. So we trust them, but they're not trained observers. Radar, individuals see these things. And the big one, just to throw it down so we can consider a story a little differently, there's more depth to it. The big one is the United States government has admitted that they have been continuously studying the UFO phenomenon. That program was called AATIP. Advanced Aeros... Or sorry. Was called OSAP. That's the mother program. George Knapp got that out. They announced it to the New York Times about AATIP. But OSAP, these acronyms, OSAP, Advanced Aerospace Weapon Systems Applications Program, who cares? That was the mother program. So they've admitted we didn't stop studying UFOs in 1969 with Project Blue Book. We don't think it's crazy. We actually want to reverse engineer the technology. That's why on your other show, you said, what's this AAV thing? It's like they're making up another UFO name. Well, hold on. There's a reason. Because in the documents, the DIA documents that George Knapp released, that everybody said was fake until now they know is real, they call them AAVs, which is Advanced Aerospace Vehicles. People are getting acronyms wrong. So the reason for the terminology change is so that we can mimic what we're reading in the DIA documents. People can look for that now. So they changed the names to get people away from UFO or UAP, even like Hillary Clinton said, on air, right? So what are you talking about? Hillary Clinton informed the public on Jimmy Kimmel. Oh, Jimmy, we don't call them UFOs anymore. We call them UAPs.